We saw the XmlType annotation earlier where we used its
propOrder attribute to specify in which order we want the
fields to be written to XML.
Let's take a look at this annotation again to see what more we can do with it.
The example we are going to look at now is ps-jaxb-14-xmltype.
Let's open this example in the IDE.
When you generate a schema, JAXB generates names for complex and simple types,
and elements and attributes that I derived from the
corresponding class and field names.
We already saw that you can change the name of an element or
attribute by specifying it using the name attribute of the
XmlElement or XmlAttribute annotation.
In the same way,
the XmlType annotation has a name attribute that you can use to specify
the name of a complexType that corresponds to a class.
For example,
we can put an XmlType annotation on the
PurchaseOrder class with POType as the name.
When you now run the example to generate the schema,
you'll see in the XSD that the complexType for the
PurchaseOrder element is now named POType.
In XML Schema, types can be defined as named types, as you see here.
But it's also possible, as you've seen earlier in the course,
to define the type of an element directly inside the element declaration.
In that case, the type does not have a name, so it's an anonymous type.
It's possible to tell JAXB that it should generate
an anonymous type for an element.
You do this by specifying an empty string as the name of
the type in the XmlType annotation.
Let's set the name attribute of the XmlType annotation on
class PurchaseOrder to an empty string and run the example
again to generate the schema.
As you see in the XSD,
the complexType of the PurchaseOrder element is now defined as an
anonymous type in the element declaration itself.
This is useful for specific purposes, for example,
if you are using the XSD with the schema-first approach of JAXB.
In the schema-first approach,
it's more convenient if your root element is defined with an
anonymous type rather than a name type.
You'll learn exactly why this is in the next module, which is going to be about the schema-first approach.